Good morning.
I'm happy to be here to tell you
all about the Leopard Server and
how it's an excellent web platform.
It's got an unprecedented level
of integration between Apache,
MySQL, and PHP.
So let me get right to it.
I'm a senior engineer in the server
and storage technologies group.
This session is for anyone with
an interest in web server on
our Leopard Server platform.
Server administrators,
because we're going to be talking about
our server administration application.
Web application developers,
we've got some very
exciting things there.
And database administrators,
we're focusing on MySQL database server.
I'm going to tell you about some of the
general platform architecture issues,
talk specifically about Apache, PHP.
I'm going to talk about scalability
because the emphasis has
previously been on development.
But we're very interested now in
the deployment of web services.
So we have some scalability
solutions for you here that
we're excited to tell you about.
MySQL and Ruby on Rails are
now on our platform.
And we have some special guests here,
so we're going to have an extended
Q&A to take advantage of the opportunity.
These special guests,
William Rowe representing Apache,
Rasmus Lierdorf representing PHP,
and John David Duncan representing MySQL.
We're very happy they could take
the time to come here and join us,
and we're very happy for their
contributions to the open source
portfolio of projects that are out there.
These are some of the most important
open source projects that we have.
So first some background about
web platform architectures.
You typically, the simplest case,
the sort of degenerate case,
is serving static web pages.
That's not very interesting,
but it's sort of the step zero.
A front end web server
serving static content.
It gets a little more interesting
when you add serving dynamic content,
serving data from the file system,
servicing put requests
instead of just get requests.
And as your sophistication
level increases,
it's common to add a
database manager to the mix.
And it gets really interesting
when there's too much load
to handle on one machine.
In that case, you typically set up some
sort of a proxy mechanism,
a load balancing mechanism so that you
can offload some of the requests from the
primary machine to secondary requests,
or offload the request to
secondary servers on the same host.
So there's a proxy mechanism for that.
These technologies for web
services fall into clusters,
I guess you could say.
LAMP is probably the one that
has the most recognizable name,
Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP,
or maybe sometimes Perl.
But there's also a J2EE cluster,
sort of a Java enterprise cluster.
And then of course,
Microsoft has its own view of the
world with their .NET architecture.
And Apple has its own
solution in this space,
as for many years, WebObjects.
These are just different
ways of packaging.
So we believe that our platform
now with Leopard Server has the
strongest web stack available.
Not only does it have web objects,
but it has Mac OS X, underlying platform,
Apache, MySQL, PHP.
It has load balancing, it has Mongrel,
it has Ruby on Rails.
It has our world class graphic user
interface for administering the web
service and the things related to it.
And it has 64 bit support,
so if you want to run your
services in 64 bit mode,
you have that option now.
So let me go into some detail
about this platform integration.
Apache, you have your choice
of Apache 1.3 or 2.2.
PHP,
you have your choice of PHP 4 or PHP 5.
We have a portfolio of
scalability solutions.
We have language plugins
that I'll be talking about.
We have FastCGI and
we have Load Balancer.
We have the spectrum of
scalability solutions.
We have a plan for Leopard to
upgrade MySQL to version 5 and
I'll be telling you about some
of the features of MySQL 5.
We have Ruby on Rails and we have
the Mongrel Web Server which really
works nicely with Ruby on Rails.
The last bullet here though
is perhaps the most important.
It's running on top of
our Mac OS X platform.
This is a rock solid, Unix based,
secure platform.
It has a server administration
applications and it has 64 bit support.
And the message that you should take away
from here is this is all pre-installed,
it's all integrated,
you don't have to download
this and download that.
You certainly can of course,
but we want to make it so easy to use out
of the box that you can just turn it on
and have access to all these services.
So I mentioned the two versions
of Apache and two versions of PHP.
We give you a primary flavor with
Apache 2 and the PHP 5 module.
We also give you the legacy flavor
with Apache 1.3 and the PHP 4 module.
And of course, either of these or both of
these can talk to PHP 5.
A little bit more about Apache now.
We know that some of our customers
require the legacy web server.
We can't force them to move to Apache 2.
There are various reasons.
First of all, it's good enough for
a lot of applications.
It's running about two-thirds
of the world's web servers.
It has enough features for most users,
will probably for some time to come.
And the thing that is going to keep
some customers on that platform,
and something that we certainly respect,
is that some of the third party
Apache plug-in modules have not
been ported to the Apache 2 API.
So we respect that requirement
and we're going to support
Apache 1.3 in Leopard Server.
But we know that most of our customers
will prefer the leading edge web server.
So we offer Apache 2.2 as the default
and primary web server on Leopard Server.
It has built in memory caching,
it supports large file downloads,
it has support for 64 bit executing
that continues to improve.
It's much easier to piece together.
The webdav and SSL modules are
now bundled with it instead
of being separate installs.
And perhaps most importantly,
the Apache organization, very energetic,
very capable organization,
they're putting their resources into
the future as we would expect them to.
They're adding new
features to the Apache,
to the trunk version,
and they're backporting most
of those to the 2.x series.
Of course,
Apache 1.3 is out there as I mentioned,
and it will continue to be supported
with security fixes and major bug fixes.
But the real action is
in the Apache 2 world,
so that's where we're putting
our resources as well.
So some detail about this Apache 2.
It has an improved architecture
relative to Apache 1.
They basically rewrote it from
the ground up is what I understand
and it shows because the feature
set is really growing rapidly.
One of the key features of Apache 2
is it supports different MPM or
multi-process model options.
So you can have a threaded version
or a pre-forked version which
doesn't use threads but rather
uses processes to serve multiple
requests like Apache 1 did.
And we looked at these alternatives
and we looked at the threading,
not so much the threading of
PHP but some of the libraries that
different PHP extensions depend on.
Until those are universally thread safe
and until we become more comfortable
with the threaded implementation
of those versions on our platform,
we're going with the
pre-fork model of Apache 2.
Which, as I said,
it's similar to the Apache 1.
In some ways it's a less
than a pre-forked version.
It's a less drastic transition from
Tiger to Leopard because of this.
And we will continue to look at the
libraries that PHP needs in order
to consider sometime in the future
switching to one of the threaded models.
Perhaps the worker MPM, perhaps the event
MPM which is coming along.
So for now you have the pre-fork model.
And this evolved Apache 2 API.
It does require porting of modules,
but it has a bucket brigade model which
allows those modules to participate
more closely in the processing of
requests and to gain access to the
request as it works its way through
Apache with more comprehensive control.
More details about Apache 2.
It allows more flexible deployment.
It separates the proxy mechanism
from the caching mechanism.
So now you can administer the
memory cache or the disk cache,
the HTTP 1.1 compliant memory cache.
That's turned on by default.
You may notice that the web
proof cache is no longer part
of the picture with Apache 2.
Apache 2 has its own
built in memory cache.
Improved proxy mechanism allows load
balancing as well and we are very excited
about the load balancing mechanism,
and I'll be talking about that
and showing you that a bit later.
Finally Apache 2 as I mentioned
has improved 64 bit support.
It has this support mainly
by improvements in the
Apache portable runtime layer,
the layer that sits underneath Apache.
And protects it from the details of what
particular machine it is running on.
So we're excited about the
performance opportunities that
are available with 64 bit.
So Apple has for many years had its own
set of authentication and authorization
modules running within Apache 1.
These generally allow you to
authenticate someone who's,
a user who's defined in the directory
rather than being defined in a file like
an htaccess file or an htdigest file.
We let you get these
out of the directory,
the open directory.
And we've ported all those to Apache 2,
the basic authentication module.
And in that particular case we added
authentication caching because it
really speeds up performance for certain
network based users where the user
has to go to the network to authenticate
as opposed to being a local user.
That can take several tenths of a second
per authentication so by adding the
caching we have really sped that up.
Digest authentication,
we've not only ported that but
we've re-ported it to the server.
We've ported it to the server
but we've re-implemented it
on top of mod auth digest.
Apple's authentication module
for digest used to be implemented
on top of the older mod digest
but now there's mod auth digest.
It was experimental with
Apache 1 but now it's a fully
supported module in Apache 2.
So we have re-hosted our implementation
that supports directory based
authentication on top of mod auth digest.
And finally we've ported our Kerberos.
The Kerberos authentication
was new in Tiger with Apache 1.
And that is now available
with Apache 2.2 as well.
Moving on to some additional
modules that Apple has written to
extend the functionality of Apache.
There's the web based
searching of local documents,
spotlight connection, we've ported that.
The Mod Bonjour to allow the
website to register itself and
be browsable by Safari on the
network without typing a URL,
that's ported.
The secure realms,
we expect that that will be fixed
inside of the Apache 2 core.
The deal there is that in a case
sensitive file system like HFS,
there's a potential security exposure
if we didn't have this module,
where a user could bypass
the security realm by typing
the URL with a variant case,
typing an uppercase X instead of
a lowercase X to get around this.
Well,
Mod HFS blocks that and we expect that
that will not be necessary with Apache 2,
because they are doing some good
work to handle canonicalized
file names in Apache 2,
so we expect that that will
be unnecessary in the future.
The next module grouping is mod
encoding and a customized version
of mod_dav called mod_dav encoding.
We've replaced that,
actually we've sort of evolved
that with Apache 2 to do the same
thing that it did back in Tiger.
And what it does,
it allows you to access the web_dav
with file names that are fully
internationalized instead of requiring a
specific ASCII or Latin style characters.
And finally,
we had mod_mac_binary which used to
allow you to type a URL slash dot
bin and that would automatically
mac binary encode the download.
We don't see a demand for that anymore
so we did not port that over to Apache 2.
So we give you your choice now.
If you've attended some
of the other sessions,
the server overview yesterday,
you saw that we have two kinds of
clean installs now with Leopard Server.
We have a clean install,
an advanced clean install,
and we have a standard clean install.
So when you did a clean
install for Tiger,
that was very similar to what we now
call the advanced install experience.
But we've given you,
for people who don't need all
these decisions to be made,
who just want to have a turnkey system
with a small number of services,
we have now something
called a standard install.
So you don't get Apache 1,
you don't get PHP 4,
you don't get any config translation
from Apache 1 to Apache 2.
It gives you just a very simple,
basic Apache 2 service.
How do we make both versions of Apache 1
and Apache 2 coexist in the file system?
We just simply segregate them.
If you're familiar with Panther or Tiger,
you saw Opt Apache 2,
which contained a sort of evaluation
version of Apache 2.0 off to the
side in its own subdirectory.
We've now integrated, obviously,
Apache 1 and Apache 2
into the file system.
They coexist and as you see on the slide,
they just have different file names.
different different names for folders
and files and binaries and so on so
if you've if you've got an apache one
configuration and you don't want to undo
all the virtual hosts that you've created
and all the security realms that you've
set up all the special configurations
that you've taken care of in apache 1 on
tiger we provide you an automated way to
translate that from apache 1 to apache 2.
there are some syntax differences
between apache 1 and apache 2.
we have a little ruby script that manages
that for you so when the administrator
is ready i mean you can you can do a
clean install or you can do an upgrade
install and pick apache 1 and stay with
it for as long as you run leopard server
but when you decide to make the change
we trigger this translation script and
And I'll show you how that
works in a few minutes.
One thing to note about
this translation process,
it's a little bit dangerous to
translate people's config files.
And we do not do that irreversibly.
We leave the old configuration
unmodified in place.
And we also provide a log because
not all translations are going to
succeed if you do certain things.
We try to support all the different
things that we anticipate,
but we know that administrators will do
things that none of us can anticipate
with a script to translate config files.
So we provide a log that you can
use to go back and look and piece
together what happened during the
translation attempt and recover.
So this is a view of one of the panels
of the Service Configuration Assistant.
And it's a very simple panel.
It just gives you a choice
between Apache 1 and Apache 2.
So when you select in this
user interface Apache 2.2 and
you're already running Apache 1,
it will run the script transparently
and you'll be translated.
And if it fails, the little button
If it fails to do the translation,
the button won't change to 2.2,
it'll stay on 1.3.
And that'll be the cue that you need
to go look at your log files and see
why the translation did not occur.
And then at some later date
you can do the translation
and hopefully it will work.
But we expect that for the overwhelming
majority of configurations the
translation will simply work and you
can run Apache 2.2 when you're ready.
So now I mentioned
scalability a bit earlier,
I'm going to give you some
detail about that now.
We know that scalability
The first thing that comes to mind is to,
instead of running a CGI script
separate from Apache,
to put the processing for that
language inside of Apache.
That's what ModPerl and ModPHP do.
They speed up the execution of
Perl and PHP dramatically by
putting it right inside Apache.
You don't have to start
up a separate process.
Another mechanism for scalability
that was kind of popular in the mid
90s or late 90s and is getting some
renewed interest now is FastCGI.
So we give you ModFastCGI on Leopard
Server and we also provide the various
libraries and bindings that things need
in order to take advantage of that.
Finally,
there's a much more mature and much
more powerful scalability mechanism,
the reverse proxy mechanisms.
And ModProxy Balancer,
now for the first time with Apache 2.2,
enables us to really manage that
and it's very powerful and we'll
show you a bit of that later.
So let me talk about these languages
that can be embedded into Apache,
or that are candidates anyway,
for embedding into Apache.
First, PHP.
We're putting PHP 5 on Leopard Server.
It has quite a few
features relative to PHP 4.
Maybe the best one is the better object
model that you can take advantage of.
There's improved error handling,
more flexibility when talking to MySQL,
improved XML, better performance,
the Zend engine has been improved,
and the language has some nice
features that make writing
and reading code easier,
exceptions and iterators.
If you have PHP 4 scripts,
there are several options that you have.
Most of them will just work in a PHP 5.
And if for some reason you want to,
you know, you may have valid reasons
for staying with Apache 1.3,
PHP 4 is available in the
Apache 1.3 side of things.
And I think a final option is that
PHP 5 has this PHP 4 compatibility mode,
so if you set this Zen Z1 compatibility
mode directive in your PHP.ini file,
that should allow PHP 4 script
to run with full PHP 4 script.
So you can have PHP 4 compatibility
even though it's being interpreted
by the PHP 5 Apache module.
Next, Perl.
We have Perl version
5.8.8 on the platform now,
and we have a plugin for Apache 1
and a plugin for Apache 2.
So Perl is going to be fully
supported for Leopard Server for
both platform variants.
Python is fully supported
on the platform.
We do not have a mod Python plugin.
One reason is that Apache 2.2
is not supported by the
existing stable mod Python.
We're looking at how that evolves.
And if it does evolve to be a
stable mod Python for Apache 2.2,
we will look closely at
putting that on our platform.
It's important to note that we have
added to the underlying Python language,
we added a couple of plugins.
A SQLite plugin, a plugin that allows
XML parsing to be easier,
and a plugin that lets you get
at Apple's extended file system
attributes like file system ACLs,
for example.
So the last language
I'll cover here is Ruby.
We have 1.8.4 on Leopard at this point.
We have not incorporated mod Ruby.
We believe that the people who run
Ruby are more interested in the proxy
based options for scalability rather
than having a mod Ruby built into Apache.
So I'll be talking about
the proxy based options.
There are bindings for
fast CGI so you can achieve
scalability for Ruby applications.
and David Schmuck,
and the team that's been working
on this project for a long time.
And finally, and perhaps most exciting,
is we have the Mongrel Web Server,
which is written mostly in Ruby,
but pieces that are really,
the HTTP parser part is written in C.
It's a very fast, very nice web server,
it's very new, but it's on your platform,
and I'll be talking more
about Mongrel in a bit.
Mongrel is one of several
web server choices.
Most of these are on our platform.
Let's talk about different web servers
and their different attributes.
Apache is the known quantity here.
It's got some happy dogs and some
unhappy dogs as you see in this graphic.
It's not lightweight by any means.
It's not easy to configure,
except to the extent of course that
in our graphic user interface we
hide a lot of the gory details of
configuring Apache from administrators.
But as a standalone web server,
Apache is not known to
be easy to configure,
whereas it is a scalable, mature,
and very flexible web server.
Light PPD, another option for people.
It's not currently
installed on our platform.
It's not the most mature and it's
not nearly as easy to configure
as some of these other options.
Webbrick comes with Ruby on
Rails and it may not be as scalable,
but as you see,
you see how it stacks up relative
to these other web servers.
But the thing we are most
excited about is Mongrel.
It's only a disadvantage right now
that we can see is that it's new,
but aside from that it's very flexible,
very scalable,
it was written mainly to be fast,
and it was written to
be easy to configure,
and because it's so natural for
Ruby on Rails and because we're
very excited about the amount
of interest in Ruby on Rails,
we've added Mongrel to your platform.
So, Leopard Server now contains Mongrel.
A little bit more about it.
It's really perfectly suited for
Ruby on Rails web applications.
It's gaining a lot of support.
It's bundled as a gem,
which is how you bundle
extensions to Ruby.
And this is the version that
we have on our platform.
So another scalability option is
FastCGI or Fast Common Gateway Interface.
I mentioned this was
sort of a 90s technology.
It's interesting again for a lot of
people because it's a way to talk
to web applications and people with
Ruby on Rails and other web based
applications have been using it so that
Basically what it does,
as the graphic shows,
it allows you to keep a daemon
running and talk to that daemon from
Apache instead of having a CGI launching
every time a request comes in.
So it's a form of a fast CGI protocol.
And we pre-install ModFastCGI on
the platform now so you
can use that if you want.
But the most exciting one is
this balancing architecture.
Yak, yak, yak, I need water.
So this works in a couple ways.
The web interface, Apache 2,
using Mod Proxy Balancer as sort
of the switching point here,
it farms requests out
to multiple instances,
either running on one machine
or running on a bank of,
you could have a bank
of XSERVs in a closet,
providing these web
applications on the back end.
They could also be running web objects,
so Mod Proxy Balancer is a crucial
mechanism now going forward
for balancing requests across
multiple web objects servers.
This is a screenshot from Server Admin.
It's not on the DVD that you have,
it's too new.
This is part of the
Server Admin web application.
and it shows a panel that's brand new.
It's on the per virtual host section.
It's called the proxy, the reverse proxy.
You have for many years been able to
manage a conventional or forward proxy
and you can still do that with server
admin on a global basis but we've
added it as a capability on a virtual
host basis to manage reverse proxy.
So how does it look up close?
A checkbox to enable it,
a path that indicates where
in the URL space are requests
coming to trigger the proxying.
and the,
probably the most important section
is this table in the middle,
the Balancer members.
So these are the things,
these are the URLs of
back end web services.
In this case they're running on
the same machine at 127.0.0.1,
just listening on different ports,
multiple rails applications
running on the same machine.
And if you want to
edit one of these URLs,
you get a sheet that drops down,
and you can configure
that specific member,
change its URL.
And by the way,
we discovered these by way of Bonjour.
So we've tweaked Mongrel a little
bit to register with Bonjour,
and we have a Bonjour browser built
into the backend of Server Admin Web.
So this pop-up,
which shows URL candidates,
is populated by way of Bonjour.
And finally,
the checkbox at the bottom of this new
panel in Server Admin to manage proxies,
reverse proxies.
This checkbox, Allow Dynamic Balancer
Administration via Web.
This enables administrator access
with proper authentication to this,
which is a special URL,
something something slash
balancer dash manager.
This is a panel provided by Apache in
their mod proxy balancer module and
it lets you dynamically configure
these things that we've talked about.
So if you click on one of the URLs,
you'll get the ability to
edit the details about that.
That's actually the balancer
group that we see editing here.
So characteristics of the
Balancer Group like a session ID,
timeout and so on.
And if you,
actually that's actually a better
view of what I just talked about.
If you select a specific worker,
one of these 127.001
balancer members or workers,
You get this panel.
It lets you control the load factor
and that's kind of a cool thing.
And that was also on
our server admin panel.
If you decide that one server is
more capable or more deserving
or should be punished more,
you can give it more load.
And you can say give 90% of the
load to this member of the group,
give 10% of the load to this
other member of the group.
That's especially useful if you
have your balancer group distributed
across multiple physical machines.
Now a bit about MySQL.
We're going to cover some of the new
features and talk about 64-bit MySQL.
So MySQL 5 adds quite a few new features.
Tiger, as you know, contained MySQL 4.1.
[Transcript missing]
And the reason that that's so
appealing is because of the
new features that MySQL 5 has.
Stored procedures,
here's a hello world script that's
written as a MySQL stored procedure.
Here's an example of a trigger so you
can watch what's happening to a table
and take some action when something,
in this case, before an insert happens
on this account table.
It will start calculating a sum.
A view is simply a shorthand way of,
it's like a handle for a query.
So in this case,
or a handle for a part of a query.
So in this case the bottom
line is select star from v,
where v is sort of the view or
handle for a lengthier query,
a select statement.
The last thing about MySQL is that it
is now manageable within Server Admin.
So, MySQL is a fully supported service
within the Server Admin application.
No more stand alone,
separate MySQL Manager application,
which you could only use locally.
It's now part of Server Admin,
therefore it uses our
authentication mechanism,
our model, our nice user interface,
and it's usable remotely.
And it manages the pre-installed
MySQL as it always has.
So now I'm going to introduce my
fellow software engineer Lionel Desai.
He will tell us about 64-bit
MySQL performance and some of the
things that we've learned about that.
Thank you.
So I'm Lionel.
I helped out a bit with the MySQL thing.
So what is DemoBath?
Demo is basically to showcase the
flexibility of 64-bit MySQL and
the performance that you can gain
when you use this flexibility.
The basic,
or the main advantage that everyone
knows about moving to a 64-bit
process model is that you have a
larger process virtual address space.
What does that mean?
Basically you get an
easier access to a really,
really large amount of physical memory.
So the server that I'll be using,
for example, has 8 gigabytes of memory.
Why did we choose MySQL to
do the 64-bit demo?
MySQL ships with a number of
caches and somewhere around,
I think, version 4 and onwards,
MySQL ships with a query cache.
The main job of this query cache
is to cache the query statement
and the associated result set.
There are two limits you need
to know about this query cache.
One is the query cache size,
which is self-explanatory.
It's the size of the query cache.
And then there's the query cache limit,
which basically dictates the
maximum size of a result set
associated with a single query.
So, you know, a single query doesn't
just blow your query cache.
But since we want to keep the demo small,
I'll be running the same query,
a simple select query, twice.
And so I'm going to set the query
cache limits to the query cache size.
So let's start with... MySQL 32-bit.
And I'll just show you the config file.
As you can see, on the left hand side,
the query cache is set to 32 meg.
The query cache limit is set to 32 meg.
The config file I'm
using is the my-huge.cnf.
It ships standard with MySQL,
and this machine has enough RAM,
8 gigabytes, as I said earlier,
to support this configuration.
Nothing much has changed.
Here it is.
And I'm going to run a simple monitor
script over here to show what we can see.
There we started.
And I'll start the query.
And I'll show you what
the query looks like.
The query is a simple Connect query.
As you can see, select nothing big.
Ah, OK.
So being a simple select query,
if you look carefully,
you'll see that the query
cache size is decreasing,
and you have a query cache insert.
So basically,
for statically served web pages,
this is a good thing, right?
The query cache is full.
Next time around,
you'll get a faster result.
This query should last somewhere
around less than a minute.
Oh, yeah, that's the MySQL D and
the PHP CP utilization.
Look at the virtual size of MySQL.
It's 537 meg, not big enough.
So there we are, 35 seconds.
But what's strange about this table?
It was reducing, it went reducing,
suddenly the query
cache size rolled over,
it's 32 meg again.
Query cache inserts, deleted, it's zero.
What happened?
I'll start the query again just to see.
It was reducing, it went reducing,
suddenly the query
cache size rolled over,
it's 32 meg again.
Query cache inserts, deleted, it's zero.
What happened?
I'll start the query again just to see.
It was reducing, it went reducing,
suddenly the query
cache size rolled over,
it's 32 meg again.
Query cache inserts, deleted, it's zero.
What happened?
I'll start the query again just to see.
It was reducing, it went reducing,
suddenly the query
cache size rolled over,
it's 32 meg again.
Query cache inserts, deleted, it's zero.
What happened?
I'll start the query again just to see.
Okay,
and I'll start the same query again.
And I will start this.
One thing that you didn't notice is this.
I have set the query cache
limit to 4 gigabytes.
The query cache size to 4 gigabytes.
I have 8 gigs of RAM.
This is not even counting
the other cache sizes.
So what does the virtual
memory look like?
Oh, 8.12 gigabytes.
That's what MySQL is doing.
And you can see the query
cache size is decreasing.
The query cache insert has been done.
Let's see how much time it takes.
This is the first time around.
should be approximately the same,
maybe a little bit more because
of the overhead of 64 bit,
but nothing big.
Yeah, pretty much the same.
OK, second time around.
Wow, MySQLD, down by 50% CPU utilization.
PHP, up by 50% CPU utilization.
And we have a hit in the query cache.
What happened?
So we expect the time to go down,
definitely.
But this is a classic
producer-consumer problem,
right?
Your consumer can run only as fast
as the producer can produce data.
26 seconds.
So in this case,
just doing a clever tweak over here,
I was able to get a 50% reduction in
CPU utilization and a 25% reduction in
the time taken to execute the query.
Many of you will say this is, you know,
basically just a skewed up benchmark.
It's 32 meg.
I could have set the query cache size
to one gigabyte in 32-bit MySQL and
I would have got similar results,
probably better.
You're right.
But how high are you going to go?
On a 32-bit system,
even with 16 gigabytes of RAM,
you cannot keep increasing the
query cache size or any cache size.
You have the stack segment.
You have the text segment.
You have the data segments.
You have whatever MySQL is going
to allocate other than that.
The most in practice I've been able
to push up the query cache size,
the most is two gigabytes.
On an eight gig system,
I cannot use more than that.
So that seems unfair.
I'll switch over the slide.
Yeah.
So this is what you saw, right?
And the next slide.
Should everyone switch to 64-bit?
Probably, probably not.
What you need to be aware of,
64-bit is not a magic bullet.
It comes with its overheads.
Your pointer variables are larger.
Your long variables
are going to be larger.
Your cache footprint is larger.
Your process image size is larger.
But you need to evaluate 64-bit.
You need to look at your
application and your application
with MySQL and try to leverage
this additional power that you get.
The theoretical limit is as
far as your machine can handle.
That's a great place to be in.
Thank you.
Thanks Lionel.
That's really good solid evidence that
for administrators who want to have
a choice to optimize their systems,
they now have this tool in their arsenal,
the 64-bit services.
Next, I'm going to bring up Dr.
Ernie Prabhakar to talk
about Ruby on Rails.
All right, thank you all very much.
We're very excited with the
inclusion of Ruby All Rails.
How many people have been doing at
least a little bit with Ruby On Rails?
How many people have never
heard of Ruby two years ago?
Yeah,
and so it's a really interesting thing.
And as most of you know,
the Rails community have been very
aggressive adopters of Mac OS X,
and the Mac community has also
been very excited about embracing
the power of Ruby on Rails.
And with Mac OS X and
Leopard and Leopard Server,
we're really trying to make it even
easier to develop full-flown web
applications and not just develop them,
but also deploy them,
which has historically been
a greater challenge in the
web development community.
And in order to demonstrate
the power of this,
we were gonna bring up a trained monkey
to show you that they could build a
Rails application in five minutes,
but we thought that would be too easy,
so we're gonna have a
marketing person build a
Rails application in a few seconds.
So this is Leopard Server,
and I'm just gonna go ahead,
and as you know,
Rails uses a generational approach
where it generates scaffolds and code.
Now, this is not the evil code
generation which creates code
you cannot look at or touch.
It's the good code generation that
gives you a starting place to build
your own application functionality.
So I'm gonna create a Rails application
that I'm gonna label cars.
And this creates a bunch of files for me,
and if I open that up
in the finder I can see
and David P.
I'll go ahead and change into there.
And then I'll run a generator
and I'll create my model objects.
And Rails subscribes to the model
view controller paradigm that's very
popular in web objects and Cocoa.
And it'll build my model objects for me.
Actually, I should build a model
object for the car.
and that creates a series of files
including this thing called a migration.
In order to make it very
easy to work with databases,
Rails uses the concept of a migration,
not just for translating
between one schema and another,
but also in creating the
schemas in the first place.
So what I'm gonna go ahead and
do is go into the database.
[Transcript missing]
If people can read that or not,
let me just bring up a font
panel and make that a little
easier for people to see.
If people can read that or not,
let me just bring up a font
panel and make that a little
easier for people to see.
[Transcript missing]
And that'll give me a URL and
I will go ahead and bring that up,
pull that into my web browser,
and you'll see here I've got
my basic web application.
You can see here it's
running on Mac OS X Server.
And then I can go ahead and go
to my new controller that was
automatically generated for me.
And I have my full blown web
application running in Ruby on
Rails on Mac OS X Server.
And to show you that I can
generate real code in that,
I'll go ahead and create
my own favorite car.
And that's being built automatically
and you can do all your standard CRUD,
create, retrieve, update,
delete operations directly using
the scaffold and then I can go
in and modify the RHTML templates
to add specific lookup and
HTML wizardry or Ajax functionality.
Or I can edit the Ruby files
in the backend to do business
logic of various kinds.
Now this is the development side and
this is what has made Rails such a
popular web application framework.
And with tools like TextMate
and things like that,
it's made it a very popular
tool on the Macintosh for
developing Rails applications.
Historically though,
people who had to deploy
Rails applications had to
use various different tools
and various other platforms.
What we've done with
Mac OS X Server is make it as easy
to deploy Rails applications as it
is to develop Rails applications.
So what I'm gonna do is show you
the new feature of Server Admin
that Al just talked about and I've
never used this before so let's
see how well it works in real time.
And you may need to walk me through--
My web server here, let's see,
we have our web server,
we have our settings,
and we have... So I saw an invalid
serial number message there.
Let's switch to the backup
demo machine if we can.
That's our laptop.
This is demo 3, I believe it is.
- Okay, there we go.
So, let's go back to the beginning.
Up to my demo here.
And so we have enabled the
reverse proxy and we want it to
be on the cars application path.
And let's go ahead and press
the plus button which should
bring up our server URL browser.
and we'll see here... So you're not
running Mongrel on this machine,
so let's start Mongrel.
Oh, okay,
so I'll go ahead and start Mongrel Rails.
Tell it to start and I'll
give it a separate port so
I can find it easily enough.
So it's bringing up Mongrels in
a port and we've added a five
line patch to Mongrel Rails to
allow it to register on Bonjour.
And we'll be sharing that with
the Mongrels community if they
want to pick that up since there's
very good Ruby bindings for
Bonjour and Bonjour now that it's
Apache licensed should be available
on even more platforms going forward.
And then with that,
then I can go ahead and
bring up my proxy and
It might need a minute or a
refresh in order to find it.
Okay, we've got a second to refresh.
Build the suspense.
And there is my server URL.
And let's bring up another window.
And having a second proxy since you can't
do proxy balancing with only one proxy.
And that's all there is to it.
There's nothing fancy I have to do.
I just give it a different
argument to the mongrel rails.
The exact same web server I'm using
for my development and testing purposes
I can use as my gateway for proxying,
making it very easy to do
debugging and evaluation.
And if I go ahead and search
here and give it a few seconds,
let's see how long it
takes for that to show up.
And there we go.
Both proxies are sitting there live.
Let me go ahead and save that.
And then bring up my web browser.
In this case now,
I'm not going to go to the,
specify a port number,
I'm just going to go directly to
my standard Apache web server,
which is running on Mac OS X Server.
And we see it there,
and then I just go ahead and
tell it to go to the cars path.
And let me bring up,
move my proxies side by side so
you can see what they're doing.
And when I hit that URL,
you'll see it first hits one,
And it should be, and then the other.
So you can see that as we switch back
and forth between repeated instances,
we are automatically with essentially
zero effort setting up a fully
distributed multi-host web application
server in a matter of minutes using
Ruby on Rails on Mac OS X Server.
Thank you.
and I'll just go right into
the next slide and show you
so we can introduce David.
All right.
Are the slides OK?
Oh, yes.
We're now going to have a
special surprise for you.
Creator of Ruby on Rails,
David Heinemeier Hansson is
going to be giving us a brief
video presentation here.
Hi everybody,
my name is David Heinemeier Hansson.
I am the creator of Ruby on
Rails and I'm a partner at web
application firm 37signals.
I'm here today in absence, kind of,
to talk to you about
Ruby on Rails in Leopard.
First a moment or two
about Ruby on Rails,
how we've gotten to where we are and
the kind of success we're seeing.
Ruby on Rails is of course a web
application framework built for
developers who enjoy beautiful code
and like to take pride in what they do.
And quite a few developers
seem to have picked up on
that notion of beautiful code,
motivation and happiness.
So far we've had a lot of
success with Ruby on Rails.
We've had over half a million
downloads of the Ruby on Rails system.
And that's of course drawn in
a lot of excellent support from
other areas of the industry,
especially from publishers.
The first Ruby on Rails book,
Agile Web Development with Rails,
has already sold over,
I think it's almost 50,000 copies by now.
Which is pretty amazing.
And it's been around
for a little unknown,
at least at the time,
language like Ruby and even
less so something like Rails.
But the success of that book and other
books in the same vein has brought
on amazing publisher support from
people like Tim O'Reilly and most of
the other major publishers out there.
So we're seeing a lot of uptake among
regular programmers who are just
trying to get their hands on Ruby.
And that's a big thing.
And we're seeing a lot of programmers
who are just picking up Ruby on
Rails because they really like it.
And we're seeing a lot of awareness
being spread from all of these books
being published and all of the articles
we're seeing and so on and so forth.
And I think that's a really
interesting notion and plays
very well with the recent,
or perhaps not so recent,
but enormously strong uptake of
the Apple development platform
within programming circles.
And especially within
web programming circles.
I see a lot of similarities between
the reasons why people choose to
use a Mac and the reasons for why
people choose to use Ruby and Rails.
And I think a part of that is just
the same sense of shared aesthetics.
Apple cares deeply about the user
experience of the systems they build.
And we've kind of tried to take
the same kind of mentality,
the same kind of consumer.
It just works.
Everything is included in the
box approach to web development.
Which, at least in the past,
used to be way more of a geeky,
engineering, it has to be hard to be
right approach to things.
So it's really quite natural for
us in the Ruby and Rails camp to
see Apple as something that's very
similar to what it is that we're doing.
And thus it's also that much more...
rewarding to see Apple today.
And yesterday announced that Ruby and
Rails is going to ship in Lepid.
Both the client and the server versions
as part of the development toolkit.
And just as an example of how
the uptake of Apple is within
the Ruby and Rails community,
all of the 12 core contributors
to Rails are running on Macs.
And the vast majority of all developers
so far who've been picking up Ruby and
Rails have been running on Macs too.
We recently held the
RailsConf conference in Chicago and
I think we had something like a 95%
adoption of Apple in the audience.
So really, really strong Apple commitment
from within the Rails camp.
So that of course makes us all the more
happy to see Apple re-prossecate and ship
Rails with the next upcoming OS release.
So the parts of dealing with integration
i was excited about it is that
Apple is not just choosing to jump on
Ruby on Rails and just throw it in there,
and then you can figure out the rest.
They're actually actively engaged in
picking the best practices of right now.
What is the preferred way of
getting Ruby on Rails up and running
in both development environment
and in a deployment situation?
And that's something recently
in the Rails community have
started to focus a lot on.
There's a new Ruby-based
web server called Mongrel,
which is showing a whole new way
for us in terms of how do we get
these services up and running.
It used to be in the past that fast
CGI and similar somewhat outdated
protocols were necessary in order to get
the speed we needed for Ruby on Rails.
But Mongrel is just as fast as fast CGI,
and it's much easier to deal
with because it's just all HTTP.
And that's the big message that we
want to send out and help spread
is that HTTP doesn't necessarily
just need to be an external format.
It can also be an excellent way
of communicating inside of your
application between various components.
So the fact that Lepid ships with
Apache 2.2 and the Mach proxy
balancer plays right into that vision.
It plays right into the vision
that proxies are the way to go.
HTTP is the new pipe.
Not just for the external web,
but for the internal web as well.
And thanks to all the work the
guys at Apple have been doing for
making this a lot easier to set up,
it also drastically reduces the barriers
of entry for setting up a world-class,
scalable cluster for a Rails application.
It makes it much easier for
somebody to take something
they've developed on their own,
throw it on.
And then they can just go and get it up
and running in a Mac box and get it up
and running in something that's just as
good as all the huge deployments we've
been seeing of Ruby and Rails so far.
That has really been a sore
point for Rails for some time.
The fact that we make
development so incredibly easy,
and then you get shell shock
basically when you try to jump back
in the old world of deployment.
Because deployment on Rails is
in some parts just as deployment
on every other platform.
Terribly complicated.
So the fact that we now have Mongrel,
the fact that Apple and others
are doing such great work of
endorsing this vision of HTTP being
the premier way of getting your
application up and running internally,
is just awesome.
So hopefully all of this support in Lepid
will mean that even more people will
pick up Rails development on the Mac.
And it'll hopefully also mean that
Apple will get more... limelight
in the deployment scenario.
So far there hasn't been too
many deployments of major
Rails applications on Apple hardware.
But thanks to the new XSERVs,
which proved to be an excellent
performance to price ratio,
and also thanks to the
new features in Lepid,
I'm really hoping that we're
going to see a lot more uptake on
deployment on the Lepid server.
So with that,
I'd just like to end my little speech
here and say thank you all for coming.
Thank you all for coming to this session.
And thank you for showing interest in
web development on the Apple computer.
And thanks to Apple for being
such a great support of the
Ruby on Rails framework.
Thanks and enjoy the conference.
So now we're ready for some QA.
We'd like to thank David Heinemeier
Hansson for providing that video for
us and we're very happy that he's
as enthusiastic about the platform.